https://wiki.bambulab.com/en/a1/maintenance/wi-fi-antenna-replacement-guide

In this guide, we will show the process of replacing the Wi-Fi Antenna on the A1
¶
When to use?
This guide should be used if the Wi-Fi Antenna of the A1 is faulty, and needs to be replaced.
Common issues that are caused by the A1 Wi-Fi Antenna are:
Low Wi-Fi network signal
Antenna wire is damaged
Recommended by Bambu Lab Customer Support
¶
Tools and materials needed
Bambu Lab Wi-Fi Antenna for A1
H2.0 hex wrench
Tweezers
10 minutes of your time
¶
Safety Warning
IMPORTANT!
It's crucial to power off the printer before performing any maintenance work on the printer and its electronics, including tool head wires, because leaving the printer on while conducting such tasks can cause a short circuit, which can lead to additional electronic damage and safety hazards.
When you perform maintenance or troubleshooting on the printer, you may be required to disassemble some parts, including the hotend. This process can expose wires and electrical components that could potentially short circuit if they come into contact with each other or with other metal or electronic components while the printer is still on. This can damage the electronics of the printer and cause further damage.
Therefore, it's essential to switch off the printer and disconnect it from the power source before doing any maintenance work. This will prevent any short circuits or damage to the printer's electronics. By doing so, you can avoid potential damage to the printer's electronic components and ensure that the maintenance work is performed safely and effectively.
If you have any concerns or questions about following this guide,
open a new ticket in our Support Page
and we will do our best to respond promptly and provide you with the assistance you need.
¶
Steps to remove the old Wi-Fi Antenna
¶
1. Place the printer on its front
For easy access to the bottom section of the A1, you need to place the printer on the front.
Start by flipping the screen on its side, then gently place the printer on its front, as shown in the image below.
Use a box of filament to keep the top side raised to avoid putting pressure on the extruder and the screen.
[Image: place_the_a1_printer_on_its_front.jpeg]
¶
2. Disconnect the wires and remove the wire bracket
Disconnect the cables of the camera, X-axis motor, and Z-axis motor;
Loosen 1 screw;
Push the cable bracket upwards, disconnect the USB data cable, and remove the cable bracket.
[Image: 拧螺丝+拆接口.jpg]
[Image: 向上推.jpg]
[Image: 取出线缆支架.jpg]
¶
3. Remove the printer's bottom cover
Remove the 10 screws marked in red to remove the bottom cover.
[Image: 拆底壳螺丝10.jpg]
¶
4. Disconnect the Wi-Fi Antenna connector
In the next step, gently pull the Wi-Fi Antenna cable towards you. Use a flat tool to carefully remove it.
Take extra care at this step to pull it upwards from the board to avoid damaging the Main board.
[Image: disconnect_the_a1_antenna_cable.jpg.jpeg]
¶
5. Remove the old Wi-Fi Antenna PCB
Using a sharp tool, gently pull on the Wi-Fi antenna PCB to remove it from the printer frame
[Image: remove_the_a1_antenna.jpg]
The antenna is now removed
¶
Steps to install the new Wi-Fi Antenna
¶
1. Install the new Wi-Fi Antenna the printer frame
First, remove all the protective film from the Wi-Fi antenna PCB to expose the adhesive.
Next, carefully hold the Wi-Fi antenna PCB from its sides,
making sure not to touch the adhesive with your fingers
and place it in its position
Ensure the PCB is properly aligned, then apply gentle pressure on it to ensure it adheres well to the printer frame.
[Image: apply_pressure_on_wi-fi_antenna.jpg]
¶
2. Re-connect the Wi-Fi Antenna connector
Gently re-connect the round Wi-Fi antenna connector to the MC board. Take extra care when installing it.
The Wi-Fi antenna connector has a very small pin in the middle which can be damaged if the connector is not carefully aligned
[Image: wi-fi_antenna_connector_a1.jpeg]
If everything is carefully aligned, the Wi-Fi antenna cable will clip in place, and look like this:
[Image: installed_antenna_on_a1.jpg]
¶
3. Install the the printer's bottom cover
You can now proceed with installing the bottom cover back to the printer.
Pay close attention to the motor wire in the top left side marked with the red arrow in the image below.
Avoid pressing the cover in place before the wire is correctly managed
The cover will clip in place, then you can proceed with installing the 10 screws while ensuring you do not over-tighten them.
[Image: 安装底盖.jpg]
¶
4. Install the wire bracket and connect the wires
In the final step, carefully align the wire bracket then push it downwards while making sure the USB cable is fully pushed against the printer frame.
Then, tighten the screw shown in the image to lock it in place. Avoid overtightening the screw as this is screwed into the plastic frame.
[Image: 安装支架.jpg]
Next, re-connect the Camera, X-axis motor and Z-axis motor cables to finish the installation.
[Image: 接线缆.jpg]
Note
: The shorter cable on the right is the X-axis motor cable, which connects to the upper right connector; The longer cable on the right is the Z-axis motor cable, which connects to the lower right connector.
¶
Verify the functionality
Turn on the printer and try to connect to your local Wi-Fi network.
If the operation is successful, the replacement is complete.
¶
Potential problems and solutions
If you encounter problems during the installation of a new Wi-Fi antenna, please check the potential problems and solutions listed below:
¶
There is no Wi-Fi signal
Check the Wi-Fi antenna connector and confirm it is correctly inserted, as shown in
Step 2. Re-connect the Wi-Fi Antenna connector
¶
The Wi-Fi signal is low
The Wi-Fi access point signal might be too low. Try to move the printer closer to the router and confirm if the signal strength increases.
¶
The Wi-Fi antenna connector is damaged
If during the installation of the Wi-Fi antenna, the connector is damaged you need to confirm which is the damaged part.
It can be either the Mainboard connector, or the Wi-Fi connector. In this case, the Mainboard or the Wi-Fi antenna might need to be replaced.
Please provide the information and pictures to our Customer Support team so they can assist in solving the problem
¶
The Camera is not working
Confirm the camera wire is fully installed as shown in
Step 4. Install the wire bracket and connect the wires
¶
The X-axis / Z-axis is not working
Confirm the X motor and Z motor wires are fully installed as shown in
Step 4. Install the wire bracket and connect the wires
¶
The screen displays an error message
The USB cable might not be fully inserted. Loosen the screw holding the wire bracket in place, then re-connect the USB cable as shown in
Step 4. Install the wire bracket and connect the wires
¶
End Notes
We hope that the detailed guide we shared with you was helpful and informative.
We want to ensure that you can perform it safely and effectively. If you have any concerns or questions regarding the process described in this article, we encourage you to reach out to our friendly customer service team before starting the operation. Our team is always ready to help you and answer any questions you may have.
Click here to open a new ticket in our Support Page
.
We will do our best to respond promptly and provide you with the assistance you need.